# DOB Abatement Project

**Meeting Date:** 12th Jan, 2026 - 10:30 AM

---

**Chris Grant** *[00:19]*: Hey, andy. Good morning. 
**Andy Parker** *[00:21]*: Hey. Morning. 
**Chris Grant** *[00:27]*: Hey, nikita. 
**Nakita Gray** *[00:30]*: Hello. 
**Chris Grant** *[00:37]*: Alrighty. I think. I'm pretty sure Sam will be joining us, so let's give him a moment before you kick it off. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[00:51]*: It. 
**Andy Parker** *[01:32]*: All right. 
**Chris Grant** *[01:32]*: If you don't join in a minute, we'll just jump in. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[01:39]*: Okay, Sounds good. 
**Chris Grant** *[01:59]*: Hello. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[01:59]*: Hi. Sorry for the late join. My last meeting ran over. 
**Chris Grant** *[02:03]*: It's all good. Good morning. Thanks for joining. So I'm excited to have the dream team here. Just. I know we all spoke individually and now we're all going to get together to. To move forward and streamline and complete DOB Abatement. So overall, I would say the objective of our call is really setting the tone on how do we create a process going forward that is optimized for DOB Abatement. What that means is we've had these different issues come up at different properties that create these NOI infractions that then result in fines and fees. And then just this public data out there that there's housing condition issues in various apartments. 
**Chris Grant** *[02:57]*: And while in many cases we've had a good process to complete the work, the documentation of submitting and formalizing and closing out these abatements has been a little bit lackluster and that's just on me. So I'm hoping that as we all work together, we can figure out a better streamlined process from beginning to end. Once we receive it. How do we now intake that? Put it into some kind of system where now the work is now being dispatched to get completed. Once it's completed, we are going through the necessary steps to submit evidence of Abatement to get it closed out and in the process reducing any potential bonds. 
**Chris Grant** *[03:41]*: And then I think the broader benefit or value of this is once we fix this for ourselves, there might be opportunity to fix this for the overall DC housing provider ecosystem because they have a public dashboard and there's a lot of data out there and a lot of DOB fines assessed across the city. And I'm sure we're not the only ones that's feeling this pain point. So with that said, we have Andy on the call. Andy is strategic advisor, doing a lot to help yoke in 2026 implement AppFolio. So we'll have a property management database, asset management, and even investor management system at the company. And Nikita is doing everything to be our Project manager with respect to this process. So she's our DOB Abatement quarterback and we'll make sure we get this from where it is to a better place. 
**Chris Grant** *[04:39]*: And Sam is our AI expert. So the idea in the future is that as we integrate AppFolio as a new company level system, and once we figure out what our process is for DoB Abatement, there might be some way to further improve it and automate it with AI. But that's all on the back of Sam and his ability to create something that might just be tech enabled for. So with all that said, I just wanted to pass it to Nikita. And Nikita, you can take it from here and let us know how we may need you and how we can support to get this all in a good place over the next months to years in the future. 
**Nakita Gray** *[05:21]*: Right, thank you. So, as of late, I know Chris and I had a conversation last week just discussing the process. And it seems pretty simple, but just the gravity of all of the things that we need to abate I think is why we need to streamline it a bit more efficiently. And so the process as it stands now is when we get, when Chris receives the email of the issue, we fix the issue and then submit that information on a document. And we have to take pictures of the before and after of whatever the issue was. It can be one item to 15 items and it has to be from the exact same angle in detail in that matter. And then that has to be submitted to DOB. So that's the process as it stands right now. 
**Nakita Gray** *[06:22]*: Some things I do see that may come up is of course, tenant coordination. But we're looking to start with the units that are vacant right now, just because those seem like the more easier ones to tackle getting this thing started. But I am definitely open to ideas for how we can make this process a little bit more easier and streamline it. So that's where everyone else comes in. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[06:54]*: Yeah, that sounds amazing. Chris did tell me a little bit before about what the Abatement process looks like, and I did take a stab at trying to provide a solution to that, like how to make it a little bit simpler because like, you know, I saw the huge PDFs come in. There are all these different, like images, like associated, like, you know, citation numbers, stuff like that. You know, it's a huge ordeal of different things going on. So I created a demo using an automation to kind of like parse that information in and then take that, take the core information and then present it on a dashboard to try and help one just parse that data out and then at that point we can really do whatever we want at that point. A lot of this is very customizable with AI tooling. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[07:39]*: My company, NexArc, focuses on an AI native software development company. So at this point, many different technology features are within reach for a fraction of the cost, like what it was before. It's way cheaper to be able to build these type of technical solutions. I actually have a video. I'm not sure if maybe this is the right time to show it, Chris, but that video I showed you before, like, of walking through, like, what that process currently looks like and how, you know, maybe we could extend it, but just kind of showcasing like what some potential functionality could look like and what the capabilities are. Would that be useful? Good use of people's time to showcase that video. 
**Chris Grant** *[08:13]*: Now, Nikita, did I share that video for you in advance? 
**Nakita Gray** *[08:18]*: Yes, I saw it briefly. 
**Andy Parker** *[08:20]*: Okay. 
**Nakita Gray** *[08:21]*: But yeah, feel free to share it again. I'm not sure how long it was or I can just check it out on my own time. 
**Chris Grant** *[08:28]*: Yeah, I would say let's watch it offline. Sam. I shared it with Nikita andy. So we have a little bit of. They have some color and some context on what you put together. 
**Andy Parker** *[08:44]*: Yeah, I did take a look at it. It looks awesome. I think solving that kind of first piece of the problem of you get this document and then how do you translate that into something that you can easily sort of send out work orders for and track one dashboard. So, yeah, I would love to talk about kind of how to. How to implement that and some of the other kind of, I guess, obstacles in the process. It seems like the same thing sort of on the other end of the timeline, like once the work has been done, it's been documented. What I understand from Chris, there's a whole complicated sort of submission that has to be put together to send back to DOB with all these photos and. Right. Information. And that just takes a lot of manual time. 
**Andy Parker** *[09:27]*: So curious if, you know, there's opportunities to streamline that too. But I love the direction that you were going with it. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[09:33]*: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, it was just a proof of concept, just to show that like, oh, this type of work could be done. I'd love to like, invest further into that, but it would require like, you know, that deeper conversation to understand, like, very granularly what is each step that has to happen. Because once I understand that, then it's like we get the nuances. We figure out, like, where does AI appropriately fit into here? What should still be a human touch point. I think part of this is not to completely replace the entire flow with just AI integrations and enablement, but just making sure that we're using it where it's absolutely necessary. And keeping the human parts human. The sky's the limit with it, honestly. 
**Andy Parker** *[10:09]*: Yeah. So maybe that's a good place to start. Just kind of rank order, like, what are the most tedious parts of this process that we want to automate and then what do we want to save? What needs that kind of human touch? 
**Sam Barksdale** *[10:19]*: Yeah, makes sense. So maybe, Chris, this is where, like, you can help us out. Like, what is the entire, like, everything that has to happen. 
**Chris Grant** *[10:26]*: All right, that's helpful. So I'll go through and share the process. I'll just verbally explain what happens from beginning to end. And then let's set. We worked on offline, like a Project plan. So then I would want Nikita to kind of share the Project plan in terms of rank order of which ones we want to try to knock out first. And then I guess we can end with what. What Nikita might need in order to get. Get it done based on the different timelines or target deadlines on it. So to start, what happens today on our side, we will get a random email. I'll just call it a random. But we'll get an email that could happen that could come at any time. That effectively is an email from the Department of Buildings. In that email, it will typically then just lay out a. 
**Chris Grant** *[11:24]*: It'll be written as a housing condition or DOB. Department of Building Notice of infraction is what they call it noi. And when you open up the email, there's usually a PDF in it. The PDF will then list out the unit, name the date that an inspection occurred, and then what housing issues or deficiencies they found within that particular unit. When I say within a unit, I have to change my language. Actually, it'll be housing or deficiencies that they found associated with that unit, which could even be in the exterior of the property. So let's say as the DOB inspector walked up to the property, if they found a gate that was damaged or a door that wasn't locking properly, all those things could still come into the report and be common area, interior or exterior related. 
**Chris Grant** *[12:19]*: But because it effectively is associated with that person's unit or habitability, it can all fall into that report. So usually that's what happens. We'll get this report. The report will then have usually two levels of fines. Level 1 fines are ones that need to be addressed immediately within 24 hours. And they have other ones that typically need to be addressed within 60 days. And it could be anything. Like I said, it could be a broken. It could be a broken chain. Link on a fence, it could be in the unit, a missing smoke detector, it could be the presence of pests for example. Now, once that happens, what we typically do then is I'll review that report. 
**Chris Grant** *[13:10]*: I'll then send the report to our maintenance folks and have them now think about what the work plan could look like in order to complete the job. Is this something that can be done in one day? Is it going to take multiple days to get the work done? Once we have an internal idea of the level of effort and if it can be done in house or it will require some third party support, then there's usually a conversation with our property manager to work on scheduling it with the tenant. Once the scheduling is completed, that the day of, the maintenance team will go in with a copy of this report and the report has pictures for different items and their goal is to complete the work, but also then at the end of it, take pictures that they completed it all. 
**Chris Grant** *[14:09]*: Once they complete it, send pictures, then we go back and create our own document where that document lays out our proof in our response of Abatement evidence. Once the Abatement evidence is there, we will then submit through the DOB tracking or Abatement submission link that we completed everything. And usually there's fields on this page that you need to put in. Unit name, date of inspection, the NOI note, all these different things and then we attach the PDF that contains all the Abatement evidence in it. The reason why we do that is because they require you to submit evidence. But the reason why we need to do it in the PDF is usually they will accept up to 10 files. But let's say that the report has 5 items and 5 items. 
**Chris Grant** *[15:12]*: Typically if you did pictures, you would need to show the before and after. So one picture of each, we'd already be at 10. But in some cases their report might have three or four pictures for the same item. So instead by putting it all in one PDF, we're able to remove ourselves from the restrictions of some type of file number limitation that we might hit. Once that's done and submitted, we get an email. The email then comes to my personal email account for some reason, don't know why, but it always comes there. It'll give us an automated message saying that we acknowledge receipt of the submission. Then usually within 24 hours you get another email from a DOB inspector that says, hey, I'm the one that has been assigned to this case. Will be in touch from that point on. 
**Chris Grant** *[16:03]*: Usually within a week, you hear back from Them with either an email that says that the work has been fully abated and this will be closed, or you'll get an email that says this has been partially abated for XYZ reason. Or you'll get an email that says we're not able to abate based on the picture evidence. We will be in touch with the residential to do an in person inspection to, you know, to assess level of Abatement there. So usually we get one of those three. How if we do a good job with pictures in our report, is more likely that we'll get the best option, which is that we'll get a note that says they've abated everything. In some cases, when it's a partial Abatement, usually they'll give you an explanation that says, hey, we baited these three, but not these two. 
**Chris Grant** *[16:59]*: Because we couldn't get enough inclusive conclusive evidence from the pictures you sent out to us. So in that case, we usually have another shot to go back, try to get those pictures and complete the process. So in the end, that is what we've done today for DoB abatements. And the last thing I'll say on this is. Share my screen. There is a DLB infraction Google Drive folder that I have. And in the folder, what we do then is categorize all of them by unit number. So we'll have them by various buildings. Unit number. You can click on a building in a particular unit. The goal then is to create a subfolder with the name of the folder in it. In here, you'll typically see a copy of the original, which in this case would be this. 
**Chris Grant** *[18:06]*: In this case, there were, let's see, seven items, pictures of what the items were. And then you'll see a completed document here, which is usually our evidence document, which says, for instance, explanation. We added this as a way to fix it. New door installed, fix the door, Repainted the unit. Various different things that our maintenance team has been able to give us. To show us that they've completed the work. So that I want to pass it to Nikita and use our last 10 minutes. Nikita, if you can, show us the Project plan that you have. Because our initial goal is this. I'd like us to try and eliminate as many at Le Bomb as possible and as quickly as possible. And I think the best way that we can do that is by focusing first on the units that we have control of. 
**Chris Grant** *[19:18]*: So any vacant units where we've. We're one, they're vacant. So we have the keys and access at our own ability and flexibility. And then two, because we've already renovated most of the vacant units at the property. So, Nikita, would you have anything you could show us on what that might look like now and then what. What your thoughts is on next steps on how we. How we can help you in getting that done? 
**Nakita Gray** *[19:47]*: Yeah. So what I do have right now, I wouldn't say it's necessarily a plan, but I do have an Excel sheet or file. I'm going to share this really quick. So it's basically a layout of all of the units. Okay. Are you able to see it? 
**Sam Barksdale** *[20:16]*: Yep. 
**Nakita Gray** *[20:17]*: Okay. So obviously what Sam showed us makes this look really prehistoric, but how he lined everything out step by step. So that would be very helpful eventually when we get there. But this just organizes it in a way that we're able to see the occupied and renovated. This is all for unit 203, I believe, and the violation and the fine amount or created amount. So this is basically just all of the information for all of the units. And then I have a dashboard here that kind of breaks down with Andy sent to us in the email of everything that needs to get done. And then just the. The priority level of difficulty based on residents. And then these two I'm still working on right now, But I know we discussed units two. I think it was 203 or 201. 
**Nakita Gray** *[21:24]*: Having that be like one of the first units that we focus on. I know there are some that have been renovated already. So the next step for me would just to get those photos from Alex, so I can just do that. That's something I'll have to do manually. That can be AI streamlined, of course, but that would just be the next steps for me and getting those done. It was units 201, I think you said someone's going to move in there by the 15th and 301, and also unit 203. So the game plan is to, like you said, focus on the vacant units first. And then we also have the last four would be units 300, 204, the common area, and then unit 305. So if you like, I can drop this in the shared. 
**Nakita Gray** *[22:19]*: The shared folder just so we know like the levels of importance and the order in which this all plans to get executed. But that is all I have right now. 
**Andy Parker** *[22:41]*: Sounds good. That's great. Yeah. So you've got a good kind of orientation. I like the idea of just starting on the ones that are. That are vacant and ready for renovation. Would it make sense or did you want to link up with Sam as you go through these first few. Maybe Sam, that'd be a good way for you to kind of get an idea of a. Step by step what. What's involved in the process? 
**Sam Barksdale** *[23:00]*: Yeah, for sure. So is it even for these vacant units we have to go to, like the abatements will come in? It's not even necessarily always, I guess, submitted by a tenant. 
**Chris Grant** *[23:11]*: They're submitted by tenants. But let's say the unit has turned over and have just sat with the property. So we have do. So there's a public dashboard and. Here, let me. Let me share this with you. This might be a better way to. You see my screen? 
**Sam Barksdale** *[23:34]*: Yes. 
**Chris Grant** *[23:35]*: All right, one second. See, if I go like this, there's this. So if you click here, this dashboard. Shows all of the open violations across D.C. now, there's some that are associated with the property. Laban, for instance, they go back to 2022, which is before we own the owned and acquired the property. So you could theoretically say maybe at that point a resident lived in the unit, called in DOB. DOB did a report and cited these different things. So even though the tenants tendency may have changed, the item stays open until we formally document and go through the process to abate it. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[24:31]*: Got it. That makes sense. So they could have no one being there now, but that enables you to just have the freedom to go in and out as you please and do whatever you have to do. Got it. But they still carried over from a different pastime. That makes sense. 
**Chris Grant** *[24:43]*: Exactly. So that's why our hope is let's just knock those out first. Because those we have control of, getting those done pretty easily. And then I guess that leads to some of these questions then. Nikita, did you get a chance to speak with Dob and get answers to these things? 
**Nakita Gray** *[25:04]*: Yes. As far as the ones that we sort of inherited, those still need to be, of course, rectified, so to speak. And we still have to submit for those. They did mention that they are usually more lenient on the. On the issues that have been inherited. Because that's not something that occurred when you own the property. Oh. So I told you how I spoke to the guy Jason from DOB, who's doing a deep dive for the nois that we don't have yet. So he should send those. Supposed to send those over by the day. I spoke with him on Friday, so hopefully we should have those soon. I will follow up with him and address. Yeah, those are the answers that I have right now. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[25:59]*: Okay. 
**Chris Grant** *[25:59]*: Now this one is critical. Just Sam. So you know, so let's say there's a NOI that predated us. It's a possibility that it's on Nikita's ledger, but we don't actually have any more evidence or detail of what that is. So if the process, as we know it is a matching exercise of they pointed out this issue and they give us an exhibit with a picture, but we don't have a copy of it to see what the picture is, it's hard for us to know how to resolve it. So it sounds like Jason from DOB Is going to work on how do we get the reports and the documentation we need to do the work. 
**Nakita Gray** *[26:42]*: Correct. 
**Chris Grant** *[26:43]*: Okay. 
**Andy Parker** *[26:45]*: That'S tough. So they hold you responsible for it, but they won't forward you over all of the original documents right away? 
**Nakita Gray** *[26:53]*: Yeah. So there were 11 of them, I believe, that we didn't have. So he needs time to, I guess, go through it and try to find those himself. 
**Chris Grant** *[27:05]*: But all the rest, me and Nikita did spend some time together and were able to. She was giving me unit numbers, and then I was looking through my email, and we found everything except for 11. 11 reports? 
**Nakita Gray** *[27:19]*: Yeah, out of 184. So that's really good. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[27:21]*: Okay. 
**Andy Parker** *[27:22]*: All right. It's not bad. 
**Chris Grant** *[27:25]*: Not 11 reports, though. I mean, is it only 11 items total of that? 180, yes. Oh, okay. All right, then this one. If a unit has become vacant, do we need to show proof? Yes. To abate. Okay, and how about this one? Did he. Did you talk to him about fees and fines? 
**Nakita Gray** *[27:50]*: Oh, yeah. 
**Chris Grant** *[27:51]*: So. 
**Nakita Gray** *[27:51]*: And I think you and I talked about this, too. So sometimes when you submit it, they, like, waive the fine or waive the inspection fee. So it's like a. It depends on the situation. So he couldn't really say, like, yeah, I'm going to waive all of the fines that you have as soon as you submit. It's like, situation by situation basis. So I think once we start submitting them and actually get on this process, they will probably be more lenient. But I don't have a definitive answer to that one because I wasn't giving one myself. 
**Chris Grant** *[28:24]*: Okay. Okay. Now this one. How is it? Did you talk to them about. Right now, If a person calls in and says, hey, Dob, I want you to come look at my unit to create these fines, we don't get notified. We only are notified once it's created in an email sent with the report. 
**Nakita Gray** *[28:49]*: Okay, I'll. I haven't asked this one, but I will double check. 
**Chris Grant** *[28:54]*: Okay. And Then I guess a follow up one that would be good to know is let's say to my question about us completing abatements and sending in pictures and sometimes they say, well, we need to come back out and do an in person reinspection. Is it possible for them to coordinate that re inspection with us so we can be present? And two, is it possible for them to, let's say in this case we knock out all the vacant units and you're able to submit end of the month, for example, that we've abated all nois across like four units. Can they schedule that all to happen at the same time so that instead of them wasting resources and coming out on four different occasions and us, we can all just streamline it and kind of do like a global walkthrough of the property? 
**Nakita Gray** *[29:45]*: Yep. So the latter question I did ask. They are able to schedule inspection for across multiple units for different issues, but I did not ask about having the owner also out there or someone out there with the inspector, but I can double check on that too. Okay, but previously in the past, would they send you a notification as to when they're coming out there to reinspect or. No? 
**Chris Grant** *[30:19]*: No. Let me see, let me take a look at this. So what we do know is this, if you get one of these reports, it'll say. I don't have a deadline somewhere on it. Let me see, 60 days abate in 60 days, blah blah. Let's see. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[30:42]*: If you. 
**Chris Grant** *[30:48]*: I don't think so. I don't think I've ever seen anything that actually says when it may happen. But I would assume, but I think my assumption has always been if it says that it needs to be completed within 60 days, that after the 60th day if we don't do anything, they will start working toward to reinspect. I'll look into that on my side if I've seen anything that tells us when this, when the reinspection will take place. 
**Nakita Gray** *[31:23]*: Okay. 
**Chris Grant** *[31:28]*: Yeah, I'll show you this as an example. Oh, okay. I think it's possible. So look at this. Reinspection fee invoice. This is an invoice notice to inform you that a reinspection was conducted. So not really. Okay, let me see. So your reinspection information, it says the id, the amount due, the date. So no, I don't think they do. 
**Nakita Gray** *[32:20]*: Okay. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[32:22]*: Can we learn anything from this date and like when the 60 days would have been and like what that gap was like maybe we can like reverse engineer some of that and Get a range. 
**Chris Grant** *[32:34]*: Absolutely. Okay. To do that. What. What should I do? I will send Alpha. I'll forward probably five of these. I'll leave it at that as a sample size. I'll find five of these in the email, forward them to each of you, and then. Sam, would you want to take a look at that? 
**Nakita Gray** *[33:00]*: Sure. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[33:00]*: Yeah, I can take a look into that. I also want to create a flowchart to kind of map out all the processes we talked about, because it sounds like a lot. So I want to make sure we have it actually, like, visually in front of us. 
**Chris Grant** *[33:12]*: Okay, that'd be great. 
**Andy Parker** *[33:13]*: That'd be super helpful. I, for one, still don't understand all of it, so. Sounds good. 
**Chris Grant** *[33:18]*: Nice. And then when should we meet again? Nikita, what do you think is a good next checkpoint for us? 
**Nakita Gray** *[33:28]*: I think Monday again or. Yeah, money again would work because I'm gonna, like, get on starting this. It depends how quickly, like, we can have like a layout of everything, like in front of us. Because I took some notes myself like this on the process that Chris and I spoke about offline. But Monday, just for a general update. Does that work for everyone or do you think we should. 
**Chris Grant** *[34:02]*: We could meet Tuesday. Monday's the holiday. 
**Nakita Gray** *[34:05]*: Oh, that's right. Okay. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[34:06]*: Yeah, that's. Oh, wow. So is it possible I can sync up with Nikita, like throughout the week at least one or two times just touch base with what I have and like crossro. Like, hey, is this. Is this the flow? Like, is this what it actually looks like? I have my AI note taker in the call and that's going to help, like, you know, track all of this, but maybe not all of it is going to be perfect. 
**Chris Grant** *[34:33]*: So I just want to make sure. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[34:34]*: To get that clarity. 
**Nakita Gray** *[34:35]*: Yes. 
**Chris Grant** *[34:36]*: Okay. Yeah, but what's our goal? So the next time we meet the goal is you're going to have a work the workflow done. Nikita, are you planning to try to get some of these done in a week? 
**Nakita Gray** *[34:47]*: Yes. So mainly the three that I just talked about. 
**Chris Grant** *[34:53]*: Okay. 
**Nakita Gray** *[34:54]*: 201. 301. 203. 
**Chris Grant** *[34:56]*: Okay. 
**Nakita Gray** *[34:57]*: And then see how that process goes and giving you guys updates on. On whatever I came across. And then, Sam, when's best for you to sync back up this week? 
**Sam Barksdale** *[35:12]*: Any day after Wednesday and on would be fine for me. 
**Nakita Gray** *[35:16]*: Okay, let's shoot for Thursday and then I'll send you a separate email, we discuss times and stuff. Okay. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[35:22]*: Okay, perfect. So then I'll take that and then hopefully my goal is by next Monday, I'll have the visual workflow and then some proposed solutions as well. 
**Nakita Gray** *[35:30]*: Perfect. 
**Chris Grant** *[35:31]*: So if we're going to meet again next week, though, are you all good on Tuesday? Potentially. Same time, 10:30? 
**Nakita Gray** *[35:43]*: Yes, that works for me. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[35:44]*: That works for me. 
**Andy Parker** *[35:45]*: Yes. I'll have to jump, I think, right at 11 for something, but that's good for me. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[35:50]*: Okay. 
**Chris Grant** *[35:51]*: All right. Thank you all. Super excited. I appreciate the help on this. This is great. 
**Sam Barksdale** *[35:56]*: Not a problem. You have a good one. Have a great week. 
**Chris Grant** *[35:59]*: See you soon. Bye. 
